# mad-libs-generator

For my conference this semester, I wrote a Mad Libs Generator using a main function, several helper functions and statements, and several large lists to replace blanks in various parts of a text. Mad Libs is a word game created by Leonard Stern, alongside Roger Price. The origin of Mad Libs stemmed from Stern’s obsession with a dictionary following him being unable to spell “hyperbole” in a seventh grade spelling bee. The first instance of Mad Libs appeared in 1953, when working on a script with his best friend, Roger Price. After being stuck on writing the script for a while, Price came to Stern’s apartment with the intent to polish their book, What Not to Name the Baby (1960); however, in that moment, they ended up creating the nameless game that would soon become well-known at parties. Friends who had the opportunity to play the game encouraged Stern and Price to publish it. It was not until 1958 that they came up with a name for their game after they overheard a conversation between an agent and an actor at a restaurant in NYC. They began reaching out to several book publishers who, in turn, referred them to game manufacturers, and the cycle continued until they could not find a publisher within a 50 mile radius that hadn’t already rejected them. They eventually printed the first batch of Mad Libs on their own, using Price’s apartment as a warehouse for approximately 3 months. The game’s popularity grew as it was featured on a top-rated Sunday night show; and eventually, Mad Libs sold out. In the early 60s, Stern and Price signed with another business partner, Larry Sloan, forming the Stern Price Sloan publishing company. To this day, Mad Libs continues to remain a popular game for all ages and any occasion.

For my Mad Libs Generator, I used several lists containing approximately 100 elements to provide some variation in the outcomes. To obtain a particular word from one of the lists, I created a statement that would use two helper functions: get-symbol and the DrRacket built-in random function. The get-symbol function obtains the position of a word in a list and prints that particular word. For instance, if I wanted to extract a random noun, I would call my get-symbol function and use the random function to randomly select an integer that will determine which position get-symbol will look for in my noun list. To replace the blank with the randomly generated word, I used the function subst-one, which will look for a specific word (or blank, in this case) and replace it with whichever random word function is called. Most sentences in my Mad Libs have one or two blanks that are replaced with a random word; however, there have been a few sentences where four or five blanks needed to be replaced in a sentence. After substituting all blanks in each sentence, I used concat to put all of these new sentences together to create the randomly generated Mad Lib. My main function, mad-lib, serves as a hub to call whichever story the user types in when running the program. For example, if the user types in (mad-lib ‘pbj-mad-lib), mad-lib will call the pbj function to display the newly generated Mad Lib. However, if the user types (mad-lib ‘goodbye-mad-lib), the program will print an error message that tells the user to type one of the valid, listed titles.

When working on this project, there were several things that I could’ve expanded upon, as well as added, in conjunction with all of the code for the generator. If there was more time, I would’ve loved to have added more stories and provided more specific random word lists similar to Mad Libs. In addition, adding more word options to the large lists of words would provide more of a variety and lessen the chance of there being a repeated word used in following stories. This game could have also been more interactive for the user by having them input their own answers or use a command to call a random word in place of their own input.

Aside from adding more features and options to my code, I recall running into some errors within its first trials. Before adding multiple calls to a certain random word (i.e. random-adjective1, random-adjective2, etc.), I was confused as to why the same word would appear in the text multiple times. This, in turn, led me to create multiple random call functions in order to make sure the same word was not printed in the story multiple times. However, there is a very small chance the random function would, in fact, call for the same word, hence why I would like to revisit this code and add more words to each of the large lists to prevent that from happening. Although writing several random words in these lists was a very time consuming task–more so than the functions replacing blanks and finding words in these lists–it aids in producing more interesting and absurd results.

Another fix I would like to focus on is the revision of punctuation in my sentences. When initially testing out my code, I ran into a couple of issues with comma placement. The commas were in the correct place in my code; however, the result displayed the comma in front of the following word. I would also like to work on getting my Mad Lib Generator to have the ability to print sentences that end in a random word without any trouble with periods. Sometime in the future, I would like to come back to this code and do my best to implement these revisions and new features in order to have a more advanced and better-functioning Mad Libs Generator.
